Added Step, Run Instruction and Decode instruction documentation. (#83)
lambdaclass/cairo-vm.go: README.md

To begin coding the basic execution functionality of our VM, we only need these basic fields, we will be adding more fields as we dive deeper into this guide.

> ### Instruction Decoding and Execution

Reviewer: Dont change this, this puts the `Instruction Decoding and Execution` on the same level as the `Code walkthrough/Write your own Cairo VM` title

> ### Instruction Decoding and Execution

Author: ```suggestion
#### Instruction Decoding and Execution
```

We have to imagin running a program like running in real life, one `step` at a time for the whole run. 

> There are some things to do in each step, we will explain them more deeply just below. 

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like
```
Cairo program execution is divided into steps, and in turn each step is divided into:
1. Instruction decoding
2. Instruction execution
```
as a way to introduce the topic

#### Step 

> This method is the organizer of the execution of each instruction, it orchestrates it and controls the possible errors. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method is the organizer of the execution of each instruction, it orchestrates it and handles the possible errors. 
```

> The first thing it does is obtain the intruction we want to run, it does that getting the value on memory where the current pc is pointing. We know that the instruction has to be a felt, if it is not, then there has been an error with the encoding of the instruction. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first thing it does is obtain the intruction we want to run, it does that by getting the value on memory where the current pc is pointing. We know that the instruction has to be a felt, if it is not, then there is an error with the encoding of the instruction. 
```

> Once we retrive the felt, we have the `encoded insruction`, we need to decode it to get the fields from its bits representation. Felt is not useful anymore so we will get its integer representation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once we retrieve the felt we have the `encoded instruction`, we need to decode it to get the fields from its bits representation. Felt is not useful anymore so we will get its integer representation. 
```

Now its time to decode the instruction and then run the `decoded instruction`.

```go
func (v *VirtualMachine) Step() error {
	encoded_instruction, err := v.Segments.Memory.Get(v.RunContext.Pc)
	if err != nil {
		return fmt.Errorf("Failed to fetch instruction at %+v", v.RunContext.Pc)
	}

	encoded_instruction_felt, ok := encoded_instruction.GetFelt()
	if !ok {
		return errors.New("Wrong instruction encoding")
	}

	encoded_instruction_uint, err := encoded_instruction_felt.ToU64()
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}

	instruction, err := DecodeInstruction(encoded_instruction_uint)
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}

	return v.RunInstruction(&instruction)
}
```

> #### Decode instruction 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Decode instruction 
```
This would be a sub-section of instruction decoding and execution

```go
//  Structure of the 63-bit that form the first word of each instruction.
//  See Cairo whitepaper, page 32 - https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1063.pdf.
// ┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
// │                     off_dst (biased representation)                     │
// ├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
// │                     off_op0 (biased representation)                     │
// ├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
// │                     off_op1 (biased representation)                     │
// ├─────┬─────┬───────┬───────┬───────────┬────────┬───────────────────┬────┤
// │ dst │ op0 │  op1  │  res  │    pc     │   ap   │      opcode       │ 0  │
// │ reg │ reg │  src  │ logic │  update   │ update │                   │    │
// ├─────┼─────┼───┬───┼───┬───┼───┬───┬───┼───┬────┼────┬────┬────┬────┼────┤
// │  0  │  1  │ 2 │ 3 │ 4 │ 5 │ 6 │ 7 │ 8 │ 9 │ 10 │ 11 │ 12 │ 13 │ 14 │ 15 │
// └─────┴─────┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴────┴────┴────┴────┴────┴────┘
```

> As we can see in the picture above, all the information we need is present on the bits representation of the instruction. The first thing to do is create a structure that stores it. 

Reviewer: Maybe we can say diagram or chart instead of picture

```go 
type Instruction struct {
	Off0     int
	Off1     int
	Off2     int
	DstReg   Register
	Op0Reg   Register
	Op1Addr  Op1Src
	ResLogic ResLogic
	PcUpdate PcUpdate
	ApUpdate ApUpdate
	FpUpdate FpUpdate
	Opcode   Opcode
}
```

And the good thing about this, is every bits combination for each field is known, so we can code all the possible flags to work with. These flags are represented below. 

```go 
// x-----------------------------x
// x----- Instruction flags -----x
// x-----------------------------x

> 

Reviewer: Can we add a short explanation of what each flag represents?

Author: Done!

    ```go 
    return Instruction{
		Off0:     offset0,
		Off1:     offset1,
		Off2:     offset2,
		DstReg:   dstRegister,
		Op0Reg:   op0Register,
		Op1Addr:  op1Src,
		ResLogic: res,
		PcUpdate: pcUpdate,
		ApUpdate: apUpdate,
		FpUpdate: fpUpdate,
		Opcode:   opcode,
	}, nil
    ```
7. Error Handling:
    If at any point during the decoding process, an unexpected value is encountered or the input doesn't conform to the expected pattern, the method returns an appropriate error. These errors include cases like invalid op1 register, invalid pc update, invalid result logic, invalid opcode, etc.

    ```go
    var ErrNonZeroHighBitError = errors.New("Instruction high bit was not set to zero")
    var ErrInvalidOp1RegError = errors.New("Instruction had invalid Op1 Register")
    var ErrInvalidPcUpdateError = errors.New("Instruction had invalid Pc update")
    var ErrInvalidResError = errors.New("Instruction had an invalid res")
    var ErrInvalidOpcodeError = errors.New("Instruction had an invalid opcode")
    var ErrInvalidApUpdateError = errors.New("Instruction had an invalid Ap Update")
    ```

> #### Run instruction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Run instruction
```

> At this point, we have stored all the needed information of the instruction in our program's. Let's run it! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, we have stored all the needed information of the instruction in our program's. Let's run it! 
```
This line is confusing, are we storing something in the program?
Maybe we could simplify it to "At this point, we have all the information we need from the instruction. Let's run it!"

#### Instruction Decoding and Execution

Cairo program execution is divided into steps, and in turn each step is divided into:
  1. Instruction decoding
  2. Instruction execution

> 

Reviewer 2: Please, remove this extra newline

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

##### Step 

This method is the organizer of the execution of each instruction, it orchestrates them and handles the possible errors. 

> The first thing it does is to obtain the intruction we want to run, it does that by getting the value on memory where the current pc is pointing. We know that the instruction has to be a felt, if it is not, then there is an error with the encoding of the instruction. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first thing it does is to obtain the instruction we want to run, it does that by getting the value on memory where the current pc is pointing. We know that the instruction has to be a felt, if it is not, then there is an error with the encoding of the instruction. 
```

Once we retrieve the felt we have the `encoded instruction`, we need to decode it to get the fields from its bits representation. Felt is not useful anymore so we will get its integer representation. 

> Now its time to decode the instruction and then run the `decoded instruction`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now it's time to decode the instruction and then run the `decoded instruction`.
```

// │                     off_op0 (biased representation)                     │
// ├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
// │                     off_op1 (biased representation)                     │
// ├─────┬─────┬───────┬───────┬───────────┬────────┬───────────────────┬────┤
// │ dst │ op0 │  op1  │  res  │    pc     │   ap   │      opcode       │ 0  │
// │ reg │ reg │  src  │ logic │  update   │ update │                   │    │
// ├─────┼─────┼───┬───┼───┬───┼───┬───┬───┼───┬────┼────┬────┬────┬────┼────┤
// │  0  │  1  │ 2 │ 3 │ 4 │ 5 │ 6 │ 7 │ 8 │ 9 │ 10 │ 11 │ 12 │ 13 │ 14 │ 15 │
// └─────┴─────┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴────┴────┴────┴────┴────┴────┘
```

As we can see in the chart above, all the information we need is present on the bits representation of the instruction. The first thing to do is create a structure that stores it. 

```go 
type Instruction struct {
	Off0     int
	Off1     int
	Off2     int
	DstReg   Register
	Op0Reg   Register
	Op1Addr  Op1Src
	ResLogic ResLogic
	PcUpdate PcUpdate
	ApUpdate ApUpdate
	FpUpdate FpUpdate
	Opcode   Opcode
}
```

> And the good thing about this, is every bits combination for each field is known, so we can code all the possible flags to work with. These flags are represented below. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And the good thing about this is that every combination of bits for each field is known, so we can code all the possible flags to work with. These flags are represented below. 
```

        const DstRegMask uint64 = 0x0001
        const DstRegOff uint64 = 0
        const Op0RegMask uint64 = 0x0002
        const Op0RegOff uint64 = 1
        const Op1SrcMask uint64 = 0x001C
        const Op1SrcOff uint64 = 2
        const ResLogicMask uint64 = 0x0060
        const ResLogicOff uint64 = 5
        const PcUpdateMask uint64 = 0x0380
        const PcUpdateOff uint64 = 7
        const ApUpdateMask uint64 = 0x0C00
        const ApUpdateOff uint64 = 10
        const OpcodeMask uint64 = 0x7000
        const OpcodeOff uint64 = 12
    ```

2. Checking High Bit:
    The first check in the method is whether the highest bit (bit 63) of the encoded instruction is set to zero. If it's not zero, this indicates an error, and the function returns an ErrNonZeroHighBitError.

    ```go
    if encodedInstruction&HighBit != 0 {
		return Instruction{}, ErrNonZeroHighBitError
	}
    ```

3. Extracting Offsets:
    The method extracts three offsets from the encoded instruction. These offsets represent memory addresses used in the instruction. They are extracted using bitwise operations and masks to get the lower 16 bits of three different sections of the instruction.

>     ```go
>     var offset0 = fromBiasedRepresentation((encodedInstruction) & 0xFFFF)
> 	var offset1 = fromBiasedRepresentation((encodedInstruction >> 16) & 0xFFFF)
> 	var offset2 = fromBiasedRepresentation((encodedInstruction >> 32) & 0xFFFF)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```go
    var offset0 = fromBiasedRepresentation((encodedInstruction) & 0xFFFF)
    var offset1 = fromBiasedRepresentation((encodedInstruction >> 16) & 0xFFFF)
    var offset2 = fromBiasedRepresentation((encodedInstruction >> 32) & 0xFFFF)
```

    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    func fromBiasedRepresentation(offset uint64) int {
        var bias uint16 = 1 << 15
        return int(int16(uint16(offset) - bias))    
    }
    ```

4. Extracting Flags:
    The next step is to extract the flag section of the encoded instruction, which holds information about registers, sources, updates, and opcodes. This flag section is extracted using a bit shift to the right by 48 positions (which discards the lower 48 bits).
    
    ```go
    var flags = encodedInstruction >> 48
    ```

5. Decoding Fields:
    Using the extracted flag section, the method decodes various fields like destination register, op0 register, op1 source, result logic, pc update, ap update, and opcode. These fields are decoded by extracting specific bits from the flag section and mapping them to their corresponding enum values.

>     ```go 
>     var dstRegNum = (flags & DstRegMask) >> DstRegOff
> 	var op0RegNum = (flags & Op0RegMask) >> Op0RegOff

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```go 
	var dstRegNum = (flags & DstRegMask) >> DstRegOff
	var op0RegNum = (flags & Op0RegMask) >> Op0RegOff
```

	}

	switch apUpdateNum {
        case 0:
            if opcode == Call {
                apUpdate = ApUpdateAdd2
            } else {
                apUpdate = ApUpdateRegular
            }
        case 1:
            apUpdate = ApUpdateAdd
        case 2:
            apUpdate = ApUpdateAdd1
        default:
            return Instruction{}, ErrInvalidApUpdateError
	}

	switch opcode {
        case Call:
            fpUpdate = FpUpdateAPPlus2
        case Ret:
            fpUpdate = FpUpdateDst
        default:
            fpUpdate = FpUpdateRegular
	}
    ```
    
6. Creating the Instruction and Returning the Result:
    With all the necessary information extracted and decoded, the method constructs an Instruction object by assigning the decoded values to its fields and returns the created Instruction object along with a nil error if the decoding process is successful.

    ```go 
    return Instruction{
		Off0:     offset0,
		Off1:     offset1,
		Off2:     offset2,
		DstReg:   dstRegister,
		Op0Reg:   op0Register,
		Op1Addr:  op1Src,
		ResLogic: res,
		PcUpdate: pcUpdate,
		ApUpdate: apUpdate,
		FpUpdate: fpUpdate,
		Opcode:   opcode,

> 	}, nil
>     ```
> 7. Error Handling:
>     If at any point during the decoding process, an unexpected value is encountered or the input doesn't conform to the expected pattern, the method returns an appropriate error. These errors include cases like invalid op1 register, invalid pc update, invalid result logic, invalid opcode, etc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	}, nil
    ```

7. Error Handling:
    If at any point during the decoding process, an unexpected value is encountered or the input doesn't conform to the expected pattern, the method returns an appropriate error. These errors include cases like invalid op1 register, invalid pc update, invalid result logic, invalid opcode, etc.
```

    ```go
    var ErrNonZeroHighBitError = errors.New("Instruction high bit was not set to zero")
    var ErrInvalidOp1RegError = errors.New("Instruction had invalid Op1 Register")
    var ErrInvalidPcUpdateError = errors.New("Instruction had invalid Pc update")
    var ErrInvalidResError = errors.New("Instruction had an invalid res")
    var ErrInvalidOpcodeError = errors.New("Instruction had an invalid opcode")

>     var ErrInvalidApUpdateError = errors.New("Instruction had an invalid Ap Update")
>     ```
> ##### Run instruction
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    var ErrInvalidApUpdateError = errors.New("Instruction had an invalid Ap Update")
    ```

##### Run instruction

```

// │                     off_op1 (biased representation)                     │
// ├─────┬─────┬───────┬───────┬───────────┬────────┬───────────────────┬────┤
// │ dst │ op0 │  op1  │  res  │    pc     │   ap   │      opcode       │ 0  │
// │ reg │ reg │  src  │ logic │  update   │ update │                   │    │
// ├─────┼─────┼───┬───┼───┬───┼───┬───┬───┼───┬────┼────┬────┬────┬────┼────┤
// │  0  │  1  │ 2 │ 3 │ 4 │ 5 │ 6 │ 7 │ 8 │ 9 │ 10 │ 11 │ 12 │ 13 │ 14 │ 15 │
// └─────┴─────┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴────┴────┴────┴────┴────┴────┘
```

As we can see in the chart above, all the information we need is present on the bits representation of the instruction. The first thing to do is create a structure that stores it. 

```go 
type Instruction struct {
	Off0     int
	Off1     int
	Off2     int
	DstReg   Register
	Op0Reg   Register
	Op1Addr  Op1Src
	ResLogic ResLogic
	PcUpdate PcUpdate
	ApUpdate ApUpdate
	FpUpdate FpUpdate
	Opcode   Opcode
}
```

And the good thing about this, is every bits combination for each field is known, so we can code all the possible flags to work with. These flags are represented below. 

> 

Author: ```suggestion

The off0, off1, and off2 values are used to compute the address of the dst, op0 and op1 respectively.
For example, if the DstReg is AP and Off0 is -1, then we can compute the dst address by substracting one from the current value of ap.

```

#### Instruction Decoding and Execution

> We have to imagin running a program like running in real life, one `step` at a time for the whole run. 

Author: ```suggestion
Cairo program execution is divided into steps, and in turn each step is divided into:
  1. Instruction decoding
  2. Instruction execution
```

> There are some things to do in each step, we will explain them more deeply just below. 

Author: ```suggestion
```

		return err
	}

	return v.RunInstruction(&instruction)
}
```

#### Decode instruction 

```go
//  Structure of the 63-bit that form the first word of each instruction.
//  See Cairo whitepaper, page 32 - https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1063.pdf.
// ┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
// │                     off_dst (biased representation)                     │
// ├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
// │                     off_op0 (biased representation)                     │
// ├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
// │                     off_op1 (biased representation)                     │
// ├─────┬─────┬───────┬───────┬───────────┬────────┬───────────────────┬────┤
// │ dst │ op0 │  op1  │  res  │    pc     │   ap   │      opcode       │ 0  │
// │ reg │ reg │  src  │ logic │  update   │ update │                   │    │
// ├─────┼─────┼───┬───┼───┬───┼───┬───┬───┼───┬────┼────┬────┬────┬────┼────┤
// │  0  │  1  │ 2 │ 3 │ 4 │ 5 │ 6 │ 7 │ 8 │ 9 │ 10 │ 11 │ 12 │ 13 │ 14 │ 15 │
// └─────┴─────┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴────┴────┴────┴────┴────┴────┘
```

> As we can see in the picture above, all the information we need is present on the bits representation of the instruction. The first thing to do is create a structure that stores it. 

Author: ```suggestion
As we can see in the chart above, all the information we need is present on the bits representation of the instruction. The first thing to do is create a structure that stores it. 
```

    ```go 
    return Instruction{
		Off0:     offset0,
		Off1:     offset1,
		Off2:     offset2,
		DstReg:   dstRegister,
		Op0Reg:   op0Register,
		Op1Addr:  op1Src,
		ResLogic: res,
		PcUpdate: pcUpdate,
		ApUpdate: apUpdate,
		FpUpdate: fpUpdate,
		Opcode:   opcode,
	}, nil
    ```
7. Error Handling:
    If at any point during the decoding process, an unexpected value is encountered or the input doesn't conform to the expected pattern, the method returns an appropriate error. These errors include cases like invalid op1 register, invalid pc update, invalid result logic, invalid opcode, etc.

    ```go
    var ErrNonZeroHighBitError = errors.New("Instruction high bit was not set to zero")
    var ErrInvalidOp1RegError = errors.New("Instruction had invalid Op1 Register")
    var ErrInvalidPcUpdateError = errors.New("Instruction had invalid Pc update")
    var ErrInvalidResError = errors.New("Instruction had an invalid res")
    var ErrInvalidOpcodeError = errors.New("Instruction had an invalid opcode")
    var ErrInvalidApUpdateError = errors.New("Instruction had an invalid Ap Update")
    ```
#### Run instruction

> At this point, we have stored all the needed information of the instruction in our program's. Let's run it! 

Author: ```suggestion
At this point, we have all the information we need from the instruction. Let's run it! 
```

#### Instruction Decoding and Execution

Cairo program execution is divided into steps, and in turn each step is divided into:
  1. Instruction decoding
  2. Instruction execution

> #### Step 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Step 
```

> This method is the organizer of the execution of each instruction, it orchestrates it and handles the possible errors. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This method is the organizer of the execution of each instruction, it orchestrates them and handles the possible errors. 
```

> The first thing it does is obtain the intruction we want to run, it does that by getting the value on memory where the current pc is pointing. We know that the instruction has to be a felt, if it is not, then there is an error with the encoding of the instruction. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The first thing it does is to obtain the intruction we want to run, it does that by getting the value on memory where the current pc is pointing. We know that the instruction has to be a felt, if it is not, then there is an error with the encoding of the instruction. 
```

// │  0  │  1  │ 2 │ 3 │ 4 │ 5 │ 6 │ 7 │ 8 │ 9 │ 10 │ 11 │ 12 │ 13 │ 14 │ 15 │
// └─────┴─────┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴───┴────┴────┴────┴────┴────┴────┘
```

As we can see in the chart above, all the information we need is present on the bits representation of the instruction. The first thing to do is create a structure that stores it. 

```go 
type Instruction struct {
	Off0     int
	Off1     int
	Off2     int
	DstReg   Register
	Op0Reg   Register
	Op1Addr  Op1Src
	ResLogic ResLogic
	PcUpdate PcUpdate
	ApUpdate ApUpdate
	FpUpdate FpUpdate
	Opcode   Opcode
}
```

And the good thing about this, is every bits combination for each field is known, so we can code all the possible flags to work with. These flags are represented below. 

The Register constants, there's two possible registers, ap and fp. The ap register (address pointer register) keeps track of memory addresses for data access. The fp register (frame pointer register) manages function call stack frames, local variables and parameter access.

```go 
// x-----------------------------x
// x----- Instruction flags -----x
// x-----------------------------x

> 

Reviewer: We should also mention the offsets `Off0, Off1, Off2` what they mean, and which operand each one affects, We could explain here that we use the offset and the register to obtain the value of each operand, for example if the DstReg is AP and Off0 is -1, then the dst operand will be located one position before the current AP value

Author: I would add this on the compute operands documentation, because is when they are used. I've done a draft version of what I would say, maybe it can be useful. What do you think? 
```suggestion
The Off0 is used to compute the result address of the instruction paired with the destination register. It can be a negative number, so if Off0 is -1 and the dstreg is ap, then, the result of the instruction will be loaded in one position before of the address pointed by ap. 

    The Off1 is used to compute the first operand (op0) address of the instruction paired with the op0 register. It can be a negative number too. 

    Finally the Off2, is used to compute the second operand (op1) address, 
    this one is a little bit special because it also can be used with the pc register when its value is 1. A part from that, it works the same as the other offsets. 

```
I mention @mmsc2 in the case is better to document in that part.

Reviewer: Maybe we can do something shorter, for example:
```
The off0, off1, and off2 values are used to compute the address of the dst, op0 and op1 respectively.
For example, if the DstReg is AP and Off0 is -1, then we can compute the dst address by substracting one from the current value of ap.
```
Its better to go more in detail in the compute_operands section but we should also give a brief description here so that the reader is not left wandering what the offsets in the instruction mean

Author: I agree, better to document too much than too little. Thank you so much!
